---
title: Where Ideas Come From
date: 2023-02-13
tags: draft
---

When Michelangelo produced his famous David statue, he said he found David – he didn't create him. Like many great artists, he thought of himself as a mere vessel delivering something much larger than he. He was right.

Artists don't generate their own ideas. They find them out in the universe. Once you accept this, you'll no longer suffer from creative blocks.

The pressure to come up with a brilliant idea can feel overwhelming. The thing is, you don't create an idea any more than you'd create a tree. Like a tree, an idea starts as a small seed and you're just responsible for overseeing its growth.

The “seeds” of all movies, novels, songs, paintings and other creative work are already out there in the universe. When you find one, take care of it. Tend to it so it can grow. That's all an artist really has to do.
More on where ideas come from. Tom Waits is very articulate about it. Stephen king - I highlighted some in his book.

https://americansongwriter.com/tom-waits-on-tom-waits-interview/

 it doesn't take a genius to come up with a good idea. It takes noticing those ideas. Noticing when there's not a tool to make your problem easy. Noticing for some thing is hard thing to be made easier. 
 
 Stephen king in "on writing" says I just don't come from sitting around the table they just come to you   says I just don't come from sitting around the table they just come to you. 
 
The prolific fantasy and science fiction author Neil Gaiman was once asked where he gets all his ideas. “From daydreaming,” he said. “You get ideas from being bored.” From random episodic silent thinking. “The trouble these days is that it’s really hard to get bored. I have 2.4 million people on Twitter who will entertain me at any moment…it’s really hard to get bored.” If there’s any difference between him and less creative people, he said, “I’m much better at putting my phone away, going for boring walks, actually trying to find the [time and] space to get bored in. That’s what I’ve started saying to people who say ‘I want to be a writer,’ I say, ‘great, get bored.’”

https://adjacentpossible.substack.com/p/how-ideas-happen-david-byrne#details


In big magic she says ideas come searching for people to take them and if you don't accept it, it goes to someone else.

Rick Rubin - see highlighted quotes in kindle book



