---
title: Signs of a pro
date: 2023-03-06
---

Only those with imposter syndrome have what it takes to succeed.

The sad truth is...

The rest get left behind.

People with imposter syndrome feel like they aren't (yet) worthy of a particular title or label. They underestimate their knowledge, experience, and capabilities.

Conversely, the Dunning-Kruger effect is the opposite - the tendency for people with low-abilities, or little expertise, to overestimate their abilities.

Which of these types do you think is more likely to succeed?

I often hear people call themselves an "imposter", as if it's a negative quality.

Imposter syndrome is not a handicap, it's a driver.

It's how people become the best at what they do. The more they learn, the more they realize there is to learn.

This boundlessness is built into them like limitless desire is built into all of us - once we have what we used to want, our desires move on to the next thing, infinitely. With imposters, they want to learn or experience something new, because there's always more and they want it all.

Meanwhile the non-imposters think they're great already, which creates low drive to improve, progress, and grow.

Imposters are walking the walk, while the rest are still talking about it.


---

Success does not make you a professional.

Showing up every day, rain or shine, failure or success, is.

The professional tries new things, gets into new territory, experiments.

The amateur repeats what they know.

The professional takes rewards as they come, but keeps going even if they don't.

Consistency creates quality.

The professional is patient, and doesn't expect immediate results. He doesn't create a landing page then move on when nobody come to it.

The amateur does a lot of talking.

The professional is busy doing.



You perform your craft because it's part of who you are, not your vision of who you want to be or some status you want to have.

Success is not the differentiator between amateurs/hobbiests and professionals.

Failure is.


You're looking for the wrong marker.

Here's the sign of a pro:

You know you're a professional when you've had not a success, but a failure., and you're still going.

Nothing will stop you.

Eventually you'll get there, and even when you do, you'll likely have more failures ahead.

Just get started, and once you've started, just keep going. 

Only amateurs quit.
