---
layout: layouts/post.njk
title: Monetizing AI
tags:
  - blog
date: 2023-01-01
---

# {{ title }}

There has been so much hype around AI lately, particularly around ChatGPT, what it can be used for, and how powerful it is, and where it can potentially be used to replace the work that people do.

There's also been a number of people that started generating [huge amounts](https://twitter.com/levelsio/status/1589737798244118528?lang=en) [of money](https://twitter.com/marckohlbrugge/status/1600822162012921856?lang=en) every day, within days of catching flight on the AI Avatar craze.

Sure, this is fun to think about and there's a lot of potential around this still. But a portion of it is still a fad, and it's hard to know what is here to stay.

For many of us, a more useful way to think about how to monetize the major advancements happening in AI right now, is how we can leverage it to save us time in our day-to-day lives and in running our current businesses.

While I'm not a proponent of relying on it to write content, there is a place for it. It can be very useful in helping trigger ideas, or find new ways to express ideas. For example in coming up with ad copy, website headlines, or even in finding a graceful way to say something hard in an email. 
You can also ask it to write code for you, and it's proven to be pretty good at it. It's been said in the past that AI will take over labor jobs, but not creative jobs, but it's proven to have come the other way around. AI can generate some really creative stories, images, logos, and more. Try using Stable Fusion to generate the next web graphic you need.

Or in your personal life, ask it for some recipe ideas based on the specific ingredients you have on hand.

There are countless ways we might use ChatGPT and similar AI technologies to save us time (and therefore money), without having to have a business built directly on it, and these can be put to use today. It just takes paying attention to what you spend your time on, and the possibilities of various AI tools.

