---
layout: layouts/post.njk
title: Why write?
date: 2023-01-01
---

## {{ title }}

As I reflect not so much on the past year, but on the near future, I find myself wanting to write more.
There are a number of reasons for this, but there's also some resistance.

## The reasons I am thinking about writing more are quite varied:

### I want to be sure I'm processing my feelings thoroughly

I'm good at prioritizing time on my own each day when it's possible, mainly walking or running, without headphones or other distractions. Just time to let my mind wander. That's my processing time, and likely my most productive time as well. After an hour's walk, I have often had time to think through my next task so thoroughly and clearly that I can come back to my desk - or wherever it's to be done - and bust it out efficiently and effectively. Much more so that if I try to work through it while staring at the screen. There's not as much room for the mind to be free there. There are imposed limitations, or at least it has the effect.

During these mind-wandering sessions, I also thought I was processing my emotions fairly thoroughly. But a few months ago, upon a suggestion, I decided to spend a few days journaling. Of course journaling is something I've done before, though never very consistently. This time around I didn't have high expectations, again, because I thought I was already processing everything I needed to in my head and in talking with others. But I gave it a try anyway, and within minutes I surprised myself. Emotions came flowing to the surface, some of which I didn't even really know were there, or they came out much more clearly than I had seen them in the past. So I want to give myself the opportunity to do this each day, even if it's just for a few minutes, and even if nothing comes spilling out. 

### Making friends and marketing

Many people wouldn't think of making friends and marketing as related, but I would say to many of us in the maker community they are, especially on Twitter.

I've never been active on Twitter until recently. Admittedly, when I was first getting in there recently, it was with marketing on my mind. However, I quickly found many people like myself (makers) out there, many of which I know in one form or another, either from my podcasting days of interviewing SaaS bootstrappers, from MicroConf, or from reading their content around the web, or having heard their "story".

I've immersed myself in this world of makers and bootstrappers in some form since somewhere around 2010, so there are a lot of familiar names and faces. In just this short time of being somewhat active on Twitter, I've reconnected with some old acquaintances, made new friends, and gotten an immense amount of inspiration (on top of what I already have naturally!).


So my main goal on Twitter is to continue to make friends, inspire, and be inspired. Marketing will come as a side-effect.

## My resistance to having an online presence

I've by and large been off of social media for close to 10 years. I'm sure it doesn't take an explanation as to why I don't generally like social media, but I don't like what it brings out in people - the desire to get a dopamine boost by getting likes for a post where you were trying to show how awesome your life is. I know it's not always intentionally that way, but that's what happens, or that's how it comes across.

So my resistance to having more of an online presence overall is mainly through that lens. But that's not the only way to have an online presence, so my plan is to be real, and ensure I'm always doing things for the right reasons.

