---
layout: layouts/post.njk
title: The year ahead - 2023
draft: true
tags:
  - buildinpublic
date: 2023-01-01
---

# {{ title }}

I'm not trying for much next year: just Dad of the Year, Husband of the Year, be able to move like Ido Portal, and become an unstopped marketing machine. No big deal. Easy.

Okay, obviously some of those are immeasurable and unrealistic, but it's a light-hearted way of summarizing my priorities. 

### Dad of the Year

I've been pretty successful at prioritizing time with my wife and boys this past year. We spent the summer traveling Europe, moved abroad, and have done a ton of traveling on weekend and school breaks. Not to mention I rarely work when they're home from school.

There are always some dynamics to try to improve, and parenting can be severely trying, as amazing as it is. So my measuring stick as my effectiveness as a parent is targeted more around improving my weaknesses as a parent versus raising the bar of where I'm already successful. I'll be paying attention when I raise my voice or say something shitty - something I don't mean. Or when I take something out on them just because they're in my path, even though what I'm upset about has nothing remotely to do with them. 

### Husband of the year

Similar to above, I'm not trying to be better, as much as I want to be unpleasant/critical/shitty less often.

### Move like Ido Portal

Who wouldn't love to be able to move like Ido Portal? Nobody. While I'll take some steps in that direction, my main goal here is to not let stress and emotional build-up affect my body in a negative way. Much of this past year was dealing with body pains that, while still somewhat mysterious, have proven to be related to suppressed emotions and stress that I thought I was effectively processing, but wasn't. So I need to continue to do at least two 5+ minute relaxation meditations throughout the day, and exercise (this is the easy part, I do it without having to think about it). Journaling is also an important key here.

### Become an unstoppable marketing machine

That one says it all.

On a personal level it'll involve [making friends on Twitter](/blog/posts/2022-01-01-02/), and maybe this writing. I'll consider starting a newsletter after I've been writing for a bit and found my voice.

### Think like a creator

In a sense I've thought like a creator my whole life. I'm changing my approach here slightly and trying to pay more attention to ideas coming from everywhere. I should have 5+ ideas each day just going about my life. I want to think more in "small bets", and get really good about validating ideas with very little effort. Personal-brand-marketing should help with this.
