---
layout: layouts/post.njk
title: Why I changed my exercise approach
date: 2023-01-02
---

## {{ title }}

I'm an active person, and one who can get bored of doing the same thing for too long. There are a lot of different ways I get exercise, and I'm generally in a phase of doing one more than another. Cycling and running are my two favorites as far as strenuous exercise. I love to walk and hike, but with my level of energy those hardly count in small/medium doses.

For much of the past couple years I was doing a bodyweight routine quite a bit. I chose a bodyweight routine because I'm a minimalist in many respects and enjoy having less equipment. Plus, I can do it anywhere, and I can do it in a park outdoors which is preferable over indoors or with a paid membership.

While I mostly enjoyed doing this routine (it was the Recommended Routine from the bodyweightfitness subreddit), I wasn't seeing a ton of progress, and I often felt like something hurt, or didn't feel quite right. I didn't think too much of it at the time, I just figured that's part of aging, and a result of being active my whole life - little injuries add up.

Then this past spring I started having when ended up becoming chronic pain. I won't get too deep into that here, but the important thing was that eventually - after not being able to find anyone that could help me much, or tell me what was going on - I started reading everything I could find that seemed relevant to what was going on.

It opened up a whole world to me much of which was unknown to me, or I knew very little about. I read all about Feldenkrais and his methods, about tiny micro-movements and how we can learn to move so much more effeciently by practicing them and paying attention to them. I learned about animal movement/flow, I started doing relaxation meditations, noticing as many sensations all over my body as I could, and becoming aware of even the slightest tension in my muscles and practicing letting it go. At least for me, whereas in mindfullness meditation it's thoughts you're becoming aware of and letting go, with relaxation/body scan meditations, it's muscle tension in place of thoughts. It's amazing how much my muscles tense up even when I don't realize it. I've become significantly better at noticing when they do now, and it's become and ongoing practice to try to release it on the spot.

I also discovered people like Ido Portal, Mikael Kristiansen, Emmet Louis, and so many more, who who can move their bodies in the most amazing, graceful ways. And all this lead me to discover ways of moving and exercising the body that are much more than just performing repetitions of a motion that isn't doing much to improve my day-to-day. It might get my blood pumping and make my muscles a little stronger in places, but it's not helping me move better, or feel noticeably better.

Practicing movements that are playful and variable, where you can improvise infinitely, flowing to and from a foundation of movements, has a way of improving flexibility, mobility and strength all at once. It has a noticeable effect in day-to-day movements. If you have to dig something out from under the bed, your average gym routine isn't going to help you much there, but when you've been spending a lot of time moving your body in all ranges of motion, consistently, you'll get under there with ease. 

This is one example of many. I can't think of a lot of ways pumping iron will help me on a daily basis, and many where varied movement skills will. With the practice of these movements, your shoulders, hips, and knees will become solid and strong for good foundational support and strength, and your joints become limber, well-oiled, and strong. Your balance improves as well, and you are more in tune with your body as a whole.

I exercise to get energy out and to feel good. Sure, I could probably build bigger muscles pumping iron in the gym, but I'd rather feel good in all my daily activities. Plus, the movements are much more fun to do, so I plan to keep on the GMB Elements routine. We'll see what comes next. Maybe Handstand Factory, or a rings course, which is also something I've really been wanting to do.


