---
layout: layouts/post.njk
title: AWS to Render
date: 2023-01-07
---

## {{ title }}

When faced with a decision of any kind, I always try to choose the simplest option.

Sometimes I succeed, sometimes I fail, only to recognize this later.

I recently realized that I'm spending way too much time with devops on AWS for Aware. Being on AWS made sense partly because we got a $10k startup credit there. But it's become time-sucking, and some of the day-to-day tasks I need to do related to this tend to take more time than I'd like.

Additionally, I'm trying to get better at delegating, so it makes sense to explore moving Aware from AWS to a PaaS. In exploring options I narrowed it down to fly.io, render.com, railsway.app, and of course Heroku as a fallback, simply because it seems to be by far the most expensive, however it's been around the longest so is potentially the most stable and robust.

I tried fly.io and liked it, until I saw the forums and noticed almost nothing but a list of issues related to simple things on the platform, and they weren't getting responses. I tried my hand at support and had a very poor experience, so I moved on. I'm now a few days into trying render.com, and so far so good. I got the app up and running (Rails, Postgres, Redis, Sidekiq) super fast. And I asked a question in the support community and got a sufficient answer within minutes.

I don't know why I didn't do this sooner. I even think it may end up costing less than AWS, but even if it's double, I expect to be happy as I'll view is as the cost of delegating out the devops that I'm tired of fighting.

