---
title: The Power of Raising Prices by Delivering Value to Your Customers
date: 2023-02-16
tags: blog
citation: 
---

# The Power of Raising Prices by Delivering Value to Your Customers

## The goal

To set as high of a price as possible, where prospects can't say no.

## How it works

It's important your product has a differentiator from the other options out there, something that stands out between you and your competition.

Setting your product apart, and giving it an identity of its own can be done in a number of ways, including:
* Unique features
* Ease-of-use
* Excellent branding
* Excellent messaging
* Price

And of course we want that last one, price, to be high. The more other positive differentiators that apply to your product, the better position you're in to raise your prices.

Yet, there's another option that's often overlooked, and arguably the most powerful of all - the offer.

By widening the gap between cost and value through your offer, it doesn't matter where your price is, as long as the value exceeds it. Maybe $800 seems like a lot for your product at first, but once you are providing value at a multiple of the price, it's a no-brainer to potential buyers.

## How to do it

1. Define your ideal customer.
2. Write down all the problems they may have within the realm of the core problem you solve. Write out as many as you can, be liberal.
3. Write down potential solutions to each of these problems. Don't worry about whether or not you can solve it yet.
4. For each problem/solution, gauge the potential value to the customer, and the effort involved for you to solve the problem. In other words, you want a high value/cost ratio.
5. Determine which problems you can solve that will deliver the most value with the least effort.
6. Start solving those problems one-by-one and add them to your offering.

### Use-cases

If you sell services, you can include more high-value offerings, and potentially outsource the lower-level grunt work.

If you sell an information product, try to be thorough in providing the information the reader needs to have a successful outcome. Add a bonus section, or a bonus resource. Offer access to a private community.

In the case of a software product, don't limit yourself by thinking the only solutions you can provide are in the way of features. Solutions can be in the form of education, information, hand-held onboarding, done-for-you services, and more. Private community access applies here as well.

## The outcome

Once you've piled on immense value by solving as many of your customers' potential problems as you can, you should have greatly widened the gap in price to value. If you started this process charging $20 for your product, but found a way to add $400 in perceived value to your offer, you should now be able to increase your price by a good multiple, while making your buyers feel like they're getting a steal.

## Example

With our product, [Aware](https://www.useaware.co) - which is a tool to help creators and social sellers grow their personal branding on LinkedIn like wildfire - we took the approach described above.

Initially, in observing the market, we determined our product should be priced in the ~$30-$50 per month range. We feel like it provides at least that much value, but the reality is, some people will value it at maybe half that, even if they do find it useful.

### Customer goals

Our main customers are creators and social sellers, so their main goals are:
* Building their personal brand
* Growing their audience
* Promoting their services or products

### Customer pain-points

After going through the exercise above, we came up with a big list of points of friction many of our customers have. We knew that Aware, by nature solves many of these paint points, such as:
* Engaging on LinkedIn is so time-consuming
* I don't know who to engage with
* I can't tell if my efforts are working/effective
* Is my audience growing
* Who are my warm leads
* I don't know who to engage with
* I don't have an easy way to monitor the people I want to (The LinkedIn feed is a useless mess)

And so on.

### Customer pain-point solutions

The additional pain points we decided to solve immediately after the above exercise were:
* I don't know what to write about
* I don't know who to engage with
* My growth has plateaued
* I don't have any sort of strategy
* I'm not seeing results
* I don't know how to get people to my offering once I have their attention
* I don't know what makes a valuable post
* I don't know what makes a valuable comment

To help our customers with these issues, we decided to include the following with each subscription:
* LinkedIn Post Swipe file showcasing some of the best LinkedIn post examples we could find
* LinkedIn Comment Swipe file showcasing effective and valuable comment examples
* The Social Selling course - which sells on its own for $497

### Conclusion

We hope this creates such a wide-gap in the cost to value ratio, that prospects don't even think twice.

How can you provide more value by solving more of your customers big problems?


<!--

**Author's note:**
This approach is popularized by Alex Hormozi in $100M Offers

Opposes: [The best publicity is "free"](20230213172057.md)

-->
