---
title: The best publicity is "free"
date: 2023-02-17
tags: blog
draft: true
citation: 
---

# Get started off right with "free or cheap"

## Goal

Don't let price be a friction point in getting your product off the ground.

## The problem

Getting your first customers is hard.

Determining where to price your product is hard.

Yet, the only way to really know the best price for your product is to experiment. However, you can't experiement without a stream of people coming to the door. 

Creators tend to have internal struggles with this a lot - finding the balance between charging what they think the product is worth, and at the same time getting some momentum with an initial stream of customers.

So what is one to do?

If we walk through the possible scenarios and outcomes, it becomes much more clear.

### Approach 1: Price high

**Potential outcome 1:** A healthy number of customers sign up.

We're golden! 

But it's not that easy. This assumes all the other variables line up perfectly too.

**Potential outcome 2:** Few or no sign ups.

We either aren't getting people to the door at all, or the price is too high. Assuming we are getting people to the door, we need to lower the prices. But that's not a great look, and you've lost potential buyers. It's slowing you down - you would have been better off starting with a lower price. And if your ego is too big to lower the price, your product with die before it is even born.

### Approach 2: Price low

**Potential outcome 1:** Few or no sign ups.

This isn't really possible, as the price isn't too low if you still aren't getting customers. Or you haven't found a way to get your product in front of people, in which case your price doesn't matter anyway.

**Potential outcome 2:** Lots of customers sign up.

Great that you have customers, but bummer you didn't charge what you could have right? Maybe, but let's look at it differently.

It's possible you could have made more money per unit, but it's better than the alternative of being priced too high and not getting customers. And by getting a initial stream of customers you're building momentum, the word is getting out, and you can incrementally increase your prices. After all, increasing your prices is easy. Lowering them is hard. your product now has life.

## Other options

Depending on your offering, there are various options here.

In both informational products and software, you can:
* Offer the product free for a period
* Offer a steep early-bird discount
* Give a portion of your product away for free - a free chapter, or a limited feature version of your software.

## Conclusion

It's possible you'll nail it out of the gate with the perfect high price, but it's important to consider the opportunity costs. For most of us, the risk of pricing too high to start and being greeted with crickets is worse than getting customers at a lower rate that we'd like.

The momentum gained, and the word of mouth that will result, and that first wave of income will put you in a great position to iterate, incrementally raise prices, and grow.


<!--

So where do you start? 

If you start with your price too high, you'll never get off the ground, and you might not know what the problem is.

One approach to making both of these easier, is to start off with free or cheap.It can be hard to stomach, giving the product you've worked so hard on, for so little. After all, you *know* it's worth more.
If the product is cheaper and easier to use than the competition, the positioning should be enough to help it spread like wildfire,  more than if there's a lot of friction in the price.

Proponent of this approach: Ryan Holiday, in Perennial Seller

Opposes: [Creating differentiation through the offer](20230213172129.md)

Related: Combining high-value with free

-->
