---
title: Bosnia and The Perennial Seller
date: 2023-02-19
---

We were in Bosnia last week.

While we were there soaking it all in, I had an interesting experience...

As we were driving along through that beautiful country, with such rich history, I had prolonged rushes of creative thinking. But there was more to it.

I was listening to Ryan Holiday's The Perennial Seller, about creating things that last, and marketing them. This may seem like an odd choice at such a time, but it turned out to be a perfect match.

Ryan was talking about all the aspects of creative pursuits that people refrain from because they let fear get in the way, both in the act of creating, as well as marketing.

Far removed from the binding sense of urgency I can have when in a daily routine in a familiar place, I felt my mind able to wander and explore ideas much more freely than in the context of my typical day-to-day.

There was a sense of not having restrictions, no limits. I just watched my mind go wild generating ideas, and I noticed my heart-rate increase out of excitement.

I'm typically a highly-inspired person, so that wave of inspiration wasn't terribly unusual, but the limitlessness was - and that was driven by my location in the world.

Remnants of the past there are out for all to see. It added the perfect context to my thinking about the limits that our own fears put on us. Thinking about what happened in those parts in the not-too-distant past, made any sense of fear I might have as they relate to creative pursuits (and many other things, really) almost literally fly out the window. They seemed so small and limiting, and so ridiculous in the scheme of things. I felt fueled with energy to squash those fears, seeing clearly that they weren't doing me any good.

It may seem like a small thing, but it's powerful when something really hits deep. To really feel it.

So this is a reminder to not forget to give our minds space to wander freely and frequently.

And also that growth comes from getting out of our comfort zone. The more we do, the bigger our comfort zone becomes, and the less energy it takes to do great things.

