---
title: Creating differentiation through the offer
date: 2023-02-13
tags: blog
citation: 
---

# Creating differentiation through the offer

It's important your product has differentiator from the other options out there - your competition.

Setting your product apart, and giving it an identity of its own can be done in a number of ways, including:
* Unique features
* Ease-of-use
* Price
* Excellent branding
* Excellent messaging

The more of these that apply to your product, the better position you're in to raise your price.

Yet, there's another option that's often overlooked, and arguably the most powerful of all - the offer.

## The goal

To set as high of a price as possible, where prospects still can't say no.

## How it works

By widening the gap between cost and value, it doesn't matter where your price is. Maybe $800 seems like a lot for you product at first, but if you can show that it provides value that's 4x that, it's a no-brainer.

## How to do it

1) Define your ideal customer.
2) Write down all the problems they may have within the realm of the core problem you solve. Write out as many as you can, be liberal.
3) Write down potential solutions to each of these problems. Don't worry about whether or not you can solve it.
4) For each problem/solution, gauge the potential value to the customer, and the effort involved for you to solve the problem.
5) Determine which problems you can solve which will deliver the most bang for the buck in effort to value.

## Use-cases

If you sell services, you can include more high-value offerings, and potentially outsource the lower-level grunt work.

If you sell an information product, try to be thorough providing the information the reader needs to have a successful outcome.

In the case of a software product, don't limit yourself by thinking the only solutions you can provide are in the way of features. Solutions can be in the form of education, information, hand-held onboarding, done-for-you services, and more.

## You've arrived

Once you've piled on immense value by solving as many of your customers' potential problems as you can, hopefully you've greatly widened the gap in price to value. If you started this process charging $20 for you product, but found a way to add $400 in perceived value to your offer, you should now be able to increase your price by a good multiple, while making your buyers feel like they're getting a steal.

## Example

With our product, Aware, which is a tool to help people grow their personal branding on LinkedIn like wildfire, we took the approach described above.

Initially, in observing the market, we determined our product should be priced in the ~$30-$50 per month range. We feel like it provides at least that much value, but the reality is, some people will value it at maybe half that, even if they do find it useful. We want it to be a no-brainer to buy Aware, so after going through the exercise above, we crafted a LinkedIn Post Swipe file, and LinkedIn Comment Swipe file, each included the best examples we could find of well-written and effective posts and comments. These help spark ideas for those staring at a blank page, and also can be used as templates for structuring engaging content. In addition, we give subscribers free access to the Social Selling course, all about how to use LinkedIn effectively for social selling. This course sells on its own for $497. We hope this creates such a wide-gap in the cost to value ratio, that prospects don't even think twice.


**Author's note:**
This approach is popularized by Alex Hormozi in $100M Offers

<!--

Opposes: [The best publicity is "free"](20230213172057.md)

-->
