---
title: When to Decide
date: 2023-02-13
tags: draft
citation: 
---

## How to know when we've gathered enough information and it's time to decide.

If we act too soon we may miss out on crucial information.
If we act too late, we miss out on opportunity.

The more consequential, the longer we want to wait.

Use same matrix from [The Lead Domino](20230212215104.md)

As soon as possible vs. as late as possible. We don't want to spin out.
aka: ASAP vs ALATE

How to know when it's time time act:
Stop, FLOP, or know:
- You've stopped gathering information
- You first loose an opportunity (FLOP)
- You've gathered a critical piece of information that helps you decide

Signs that you've gathered enough information:

1) STOP:
Studies by Paul Slovak and Daniel Kahmenann (horse race prediction test), x show that acquiring more information has diminishing returns.

Useful information capped out at 17%, even though their confidence level went way up with further information.

After a certain point additional information only feeds [Confirmation Bias](20230213104057.md)

Related: 80/20 rule in that ~20% of the information will get you 80% of the way to the best decision you'll be able to make

2) FLOP

Red flag for when you have to decide is when you're starting to lose opportunity.

3) KNOW

A decision that makes it obvious as to how to decide.

---

Video 2:

## How to Preserve optionality while gathering information

Invert the situation and avoid the worst possible outcome

You may not know the route to the best possible outcome, but you can likely eliminate the worst possible outcome.
Get clear on the worst case scenario and do what you can to avoid it.

Shoot bullets before cannonballs:
Don't be overly invested in a single option.
Keep future options open by taking small low-risk steps towards as many options as possible.

Live with the decision before you announce it. Let the draft email sit...

Sleep on all major decisions before telling anyone. We start to see the information in a new light. And we can check in with our emotional selves.

Don't be afraid to look short-term-stupid if you need to hold out til you have the right decision.

If you have to make a decision, make the smallest one possible while you gather more information.

---

## Bonus -- off the cuff - The Illusion of Knowledge

The worst time to look for information is when you actually need it.

We overvalue easily accessible information, and become more confident than we should be.

Collect raw, rich sources of data.


---

[References](References.md): FS course
