---
title: Owning the Frame
date: 2023-02-13
tags: draft
citation: 
---

Get out of the binary decision box and see if you can create another option.

When given binary choices, the outcome is often not ideal. When given a third choice, the chance of outcome skyrockets.

One of the biggest mistakes of decision-makers is letting other people frame the decision, and limit the options.

Techniques:
1) Vanishing options: What would you do if one of the options was gone?
Given that option, what might it look like? What could you do, if that choice were made, to still get closer to your objectives? Then flip the situation, and figure out what you'd do?

2) This and that options: Can you combine solutions?
If your partner isn't always meeting your needs, you may feel like you need to either stay or go: binary. What about asking yourself if there's someone else in your life that can meet the unmet needs, while staying in your relationship?

3) Opportunity costs: We are good as seeing what we will gain in a given scenario but terrible at seeing what we will lose.

4) Gather more information: If you have an inclination as to what choice to make, ask yourself what information would change your mind. If you don't have an inclination, ask what information would help you decide.


---

## Bonus - Off the cuff - Seeking out disconfirming information

Automatic behaviors: A good one is to seek out evidence contrary to your argument. Is there data that says your argument is not true?

When something surprises you, it's worth looking into what's going on. It means the world isn't working in the way you expect it to - the way the model in your head says it should. What is it you need to update in your view?


