---
title: Building a business, not a product
tags: 
date: 2023-01-09
---

## {{ title }}

As a founder, it can be so easy to get caught up in developing the product at the expense of everything else, as, afterall, that is the thing we are exchanging for money. So we feel as though our time and effort is best spent there.

However, as most founders will discover, once the product is ready to launch, once they're looking for customer number one, they realize the hard part has only begun. For many of us, building the product is easy, because we know how to do it and it's fun.

But the real challenge is in finding product/market fit, narrowly defining your target audience, nailing your messaging, followed by getting in front of the right people, both with and without scale.

I've hit that wall so many times in the past, of having what feels like a great product ready to go to market, only to realize I have no idea how to reach the target audience, or even determine product/market fit because I was targeting an audience I knew nothing about and couldn't figure out how to access.

With my last successful SaaS, pretty much all the early customer acquisition came from direct outreach. It worked, and it worked well, but it was a quiet grind.

As we prepare to relaunch Aware, I've been thinking a lot about how I want to market it. And as I think about my other goals for myself, the plan has started to form naturally and organically, and I'm getting a clearer vision of it every day.

My other goals that relate to this are:

* **Immersing myself in the maker community again.** I did this ~2017 when I started a podcast called The SaaS Bootstrapper. It was a way for me to reach out to people doing exactly what I was striving to do - making a living off of a bootstrapped SaaS, and get them on a call and ask them pretty much whatever I wanted. I viewed this in a sense of having a similar effect to the saying "You are the average of the 5 people you spend the most time with". I was surrounding myself with people that were where I wanted to be. But as my business started taking off, something had to give, so I had to stop the podcast. As more and more of my time went into running the business, I also drifted from the maker community a bit, as I was 100% heads-down as a single founder. So, I'm changing that, and reconnecting with old maker friends, and making new ones.

* **Build an audience.** I want to continue to put my ideas and products out there, and building an audience will help in more quickly bouncing ideas off of people, and getting feedback along the way.

These all overlap a bit, so I'm making a concerted effort to each day remember that while development might feel like the most important thing I can be doing right now, this is a long game, and that over the long term, building an audience, building in public, sharing and learning from others, getting feedback along the way, and surrounding myself with other makers again is going to put me in a better position over the long run.

So here's my working plan:

* Once a week: Scheduled tweets for the week

* Write daily for [macmartine.com](https://macmartine.com). This is where I'll keep pretty much everything I write, viewing what goes here as mainly a repository for myself. Maybe over time I'll decide to get more eyeballs there, but for now it's a place for me to get used to putting my words out there and finding my voice.
From those posts, I'll re-purpose any posts where it's appropriate for:
  - LinkedIn [topics: Growing audience, marketing, light BIP]
  - Twitter [topics: BIP, anything in the realm of business and growth]
  - Potentially a newsletter at some point?

* Spend 20 minutes a day engaging on Twitter using Engagement Builder

* Set up alerts/filters for relevant conversations on:
  - Indie Hackers
  - Reddit (via Gummy Search)
  - LinkedIn (using Aware)
  - Trends.vc
  - Small Bets community
  - MicroConf

Over time I expect some of these communities will prove to be more valuable than others and I'll adjust accordingly. Monitoring these communities feels like a lot, but I'll see what kind of systems I can set up to simplify and streamline the process, and we'll see how it goes.




