---
title: Wars
draft: true
date: 2023-02-23
---

- Tito
- Sapiens

## The Balkan Wars

The Balkan Wars were in 1912-1913, and consisted of the 4 Balkan states:

Greece, Montenegro, Serbia, Bulgaria

...trying to break free from the Ottoman Empire. They were already independent but were still largely ruled by the Ottoman Empire.

This is when The Ottoman Empire lost the bulk of it's European territories. 

This is when Serbia beat the Ottoman empire and gained independence. Serbia was now larger and wanting union of the South Slavic peoples.

Then a young man killed Archduke Franz Ferdinand (of Austria) on the Latin Bridge in Sarajevo. Bosnia was then run by Austro-Hungarian Empire. This is what kicked off WWI (1914 - 1918)- Austria was afraid Serbia was going to then try to conquer them, so Austria started a preemptive war against Serbia.

Austrians wanted to end Serbias interference in Bosnia, which had been going on for years. Austria used this as an excuse - the last straw.

Other countries started joining in, but why?
- Russia joined Serbia right away
Sounds like the countries involved were requesting neutrality from other countries, and when declined, mobilized.

Austria (Allies): U.S., U.K., Italy, Japan, France, Russia
Serbia (Central powers): Germany, Austria-Hungary, Ottoman Empire

This was the end of these empires: German, Austo-Hungarian, Ottoman, Russian

The result of this was new states: Poland, Czechoslovakia, Yugoslavia.

Failure to manage the resulting instability led later to WWII in 1939.

- Why was the Ottoman Empire on the side of Serbia if they had just been defeated by them? Sounds complicated but strategic in that it seemed like their best chance to retain the Empire.

---

### Yugoslavian Wars

Tito died in 1980, and tensions in Yugoslavia started to rise. 

6 Yugoslavian states: Croatia, Slovenia, Bosnia, Serbia, Monetegro, (?)

Most wanted independence, but the Serbs wanted it all. 

Slovenia was the first to gain independence, which happened in only 10 days. There weren't many Serbs there, so Slovenia was viewed are largely homogenized, so they didn't want to waste efforts there.

Note: The Serbs are a large ethnic (Orthodox) group mainly from Serbia).

Because Serbia (?) was the biggest, they controlled the Yugoslavian People's Army. 
It was really the Bosnian-Serbs (Serbs in Bonsia) that fought in Bosnia, and Serbia helped fund it.

In there was the "war within a war" (?) of Bosnia and Croatia. They were initially allied against the Serbs, but tensions grew - not sure why. They fought, and eventually banned together again (?).

The Serbs were going after ethnic cleansing, mainly killing Muslims. But killed many civilians along the way.


---

The Cold War was between Russia and the U.S. for influence of the world. Both were big powers and wanted to dominate.

The "iron curtain" was a (?)


