---
title: Mr. Bloom
tags: journal
draft: true
date: 2023-01-06
---

## {{ title }}

I've been thinking about how cool what Sahil Bloom has been doing. He's getting a ton of attention for basically repackaging existing content.

Much of his content stems from other people's ideas that he's garnered from what he knows about business, productivity, human behavior and psychology, and sharing the best of it while adding his flavor to it. 

I recognize this could be taken as discrediting him, but I in no way mean it that way. And I'm not saying he doesn't have his own (good) ideas and share those as well, he does. It's just that the core of his model could be summed up as reading a ton of what interests him, and writing about it, which is really, really cool.

And simple.

Yet simple things aren't always easy.

Not everyone could succeed at what he's doing because he's clearly very passionate about these topics, he's well-read, and has a good filter for what to publish. There's not a lot of fluff. He also seems very kind and likeable, and just doing his thing, and it resonates with people. Not everyone has that, and for those that don't, it's hard to fake it.

Why this has been on my mind, is because sometimes we feel like to have a positive influence on the world, or to make a living doing something fun, that it has to be ground-breaking, or some *big* idea. Sahil is a great example of someone that at a core level is doing neither of those things. He just took the time to start writing and finding his voice, and didn't stop until he did. And by the time he did, people were eating it up.

I greatly admire what he's doing and am having a great time watching him grow, and I love it especially because 99% of what he talks about are the same topics I read about for fun.

And I think a similar approach is taken all the time with other types of businesses including software, communities, and stores, and I'm going to use this as an example to bring me back down next time I get overwhelmed by the size of my ideas.

