---
layout: layouts/post.njk
title: "The Curious Innovator: Luck"
categories:
  - Insight
date: 2023-01-13
---

## The Mission

<div class='card'>

- Personal update: Introduction
- Insight: The role of luck in business and life
- Curious: 42 folds to reach the moon
 
</div>

## Introduction:

This being the first Curious Innovator post warrants a brief introduction of myself:

My wife and two boys and I call Portland, Oregon home. But our adventurousness got the best of us, and we are currently living in Zagreb, Croatia for the year. From here, we're travelling Eastern Europe and beyond every school break and many weekends.

As a software developer and entrepreneur, I’ve spent the last 18 years constantly experimenting with ideas, trying to crack the code to making a living building products. I’ve failed more times than I care to admit, and had one worthy of calling a success. Probability at work.

As a curious innovator, I’m constantly exploring anything which may:
- Help me on my endless path to living a simple, yet deeply fulfilling life without regrets.
- Satisfy my curiosity about the unfathomable complexity, mysteriousness, and beauty of this universe we find ourselves in.

And that's what this newsletter will be about.

Thanks for joining me on this journey, and please reply and introduce yourself.

Let's dive in.

## Insight:

{% include "posts/2023-01-13.md" %}

## Curious

If you could fold a piece of paper 42 times, it would be thick enough to [reach the moon](https://boundlessbrilliance.org/brilliant-blog/foldingpapertothemoon).

